






























ELO server ‒ Installation and operation | Repository and documents


ELO server ‒ Installation

and operation

Repository and documents



3

3

4

7

8

9

10

10

11

11

12

12

13

13

37

40

42

42

44

44

45

45

46

47

48

51

Table of contents

Paths and URLs

Introduction 

Document paths 

Default document paths 

Move document files 

Manage URLs 

ELO OCR Service

Information 

ELO Indexserver OCR

Information 

Textreader

Information 

Backup service

Backup 

'Remove old documents' dialog box 

Deleting backup documents 

Passwords

Creating encrypted and encoded passwords 

Preview documents

Information 

Document redaction

Introduction 

Requirements 

Activation on the server 

Test in the ELO client 

Other comments 

2 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Paths and URLs

Introduction 

ELO uses different paths and URLs depending on the purpose and range of tasks.

This documentation covers the following topics:

Document paths

Default document paths

Manage URLs 

• 

• 

• 

3 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Document paths 

ELO manages storage media (physical storage) using document paths. In the Document paths area

of the ELO Administration Console, you can set up new media, make moved media accessible

again, or check the free storage space on a medium. The document path specifies where the

documents are stored physically.

Information

You can specify a separate document path for each document when entering metadata.

However, this is only possible if you selected No fixed assignment as the document path

when the metadata form was created.

Information

You need to have the permission Change document paths to edit document paths. Your

system administrator can assign this right to you.

Creating a new document path 

Click Add new document path (green plus icon).

The fields for a new document path appear in the right-hand program pane.

Enter the name of the document path to the Name field.

Define other options.

Path: Enter the path on the file system that will be used to store the files.

1. 

2. 

3. 

4 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Preview path: If you want to save the preview files separately from the documents, enter the

path here.

Full text path: If you want to store full text files separately from the documents, enter the

path here.

Structure: Define here how ELO stores the documents. Open the drop-down menu to view the

options you can select, such as Flat, no child directories, for ELO to store all documents to the

same directory.

Example

If you select Flat, no child directories, ELO will put all documents in a single directory

with no limits.

For 64k directories with 64k documents, ELO will file a maximum of 64,000 documents

in any one of up to 64,000 directories.

Information

The best setting depends on your preferred directory structure and which storage

medium you have in use.

Use as backup path: If you select the check box, the path can be used to back up data. The

option is available in the Restore path field in the Default document paths area.

Please note

A backup path is not a substitute for actual backups!

Do not restore from backup path: The path is not used to restore documents.

Read-only: A path with the status "read-only" can no longer be written to.

Please note

You should not store documents with an expiration date on read-only media. Doing so

could lead to inconsistencies when permanently deleting expired documents.

WORM path: WORM is the abbreviation for: write once read many. If this option is selected,

the path can be used for applications such as jukebox storage.

ELO automatically creates the following fields in this dialog box:

Internal ID

Default path

Created on

Changed on

◦ 

◦ 

◦ 

◦ 

◦ 

◦ 

5 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



The internal identification number is displayed when the path was created or changed.

Information

The Delete permanently function does not check whether the documents are located

at a WORM path. The document path setting does not affect the document metadata.

Please note

Documents stored on WORM media can also be deleted from the repository. This

means that access via the system is no longer possible.

Click Save to confirm your entries.

The new path shows up in the list on the left-hand side.

All document paths will now be used according to the applied settings to save and restore

documents.

4. 

6 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Default document paths 

In the Default document paths area of the ELO Administration Console, you specify which paths to

use as document paths or restore paths.

Default document paths: Use the Default document paths drop-down menu to select the main

document path.

No other default path: If required, you can use the fields marked No other default path to add

document paths.

Default filing method: These radio buttons enable you to specify how to distribute the entries to the

document paths.

Restore path: Use the Restore path drop-down menu to select the backup path to be used.

7 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Move document files 

In the Move document files area, you can move files, file versions, attachments, and/or attachment

versions to a different document path. The repository structure remains the same.

Source path: In the Source path drop-down menu, you can choose whether to move document files

from all paths or only from a selected path.

Target path: Select the desired source path from the Source path drop-down menu. You may need to

create the path first in the Document paths area.

Filing date range: You can use the from and to date fields to restrict the action to a specific period. If

you define a period, only document files filed within the specified period will be moved. Otherwise,

all document files on the selected path will be moved.

Count: Click the Count button to generate a report on the number and size of document files that

would be moved according to your settings.

Move: Click the Move button to start the move action.

Restore default settings: Click the Restore default settings button to restore the default settings in

the Move document files area.

8 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Manage URLs 

In the Manage URLs area of the ELO Administration Console, you enter the URLs for different ELO

modules.

ELO Analytics URL: The ELO Analytics URL is automatically entered by the ELO Server Setup.

External ELO Analytics URL: Enter the external URL used to make ELO Analytics available

externally in this field.

Please refer to the separate documentation on ELO Analytics for more information on configuring

and installing ELO Analytics.

ELO online help URL: The ELO Server Setup enters the URL to the help portal here.

By default, this is the address:

https://docs.elo.com/

9 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation

https://docs.elo.com/admin/elo-analytics/
https://docs.elo.com/admin/elo-analytics/


ELO OCR Service

Information 

Please note

Starting with ELO 21.4, ELO Textreader (gen. 2) replaces the previous ELO Textreader (ELOtr),

ELO Preview Converter (ELOpreview), and ELO OCR Service (ELOocr).

For more information, refer to the ELO Textreader (gen. 2) documentation.

10 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



ELO Indexserver OCR

Information 

This documentation has been moved.

You can now find the documentation on the ELO Indexserver page.

11 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation

https://docs.elo.com/ops/indexserver/en-us/ocr-ix/
https://docs.elo.com/ops/indexserver/en-us/ocr-ix/


Textreader

Information 

Please note

Starting with ELO 21.4, ELO Textreader (gen. 2) replaces the previous ELO Textreader (ELOtr),

ELO Preview Converter (ELOpreview), and ELO OCR Service (ELOocr).

For more information, refer to the ELO Textreader (gen. 2) documentation.

12 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Backup service

Backup 

ELO Backup is a component within the ELO Document Manager (ELOdm), meaning that additional

software does not need to be installed to use it.

Note on ELO Replication 

If the ELO Replication module is in use and the Transfer DDS option is enabled in this module, the

backup profile must always contain an SQL command under SQL Select in order to exclude certain

temporary documents. You will find details in the section Only backing up certain documents.

Procedure 

Check license 

The ELOenterprise or ELOprofessional license file, which was uploaded on installation and that is

used by the ELO Access Manager, must include an ELO Backup license.

The license file can also be changed later. If you wish to do so, please send a request to the ELO

order center.

Settings for Centera, NetApp, and DR550 

If you wish to use a system based on EMC Centera, a NetApp system, or the IBM Tivoli Storage

Manager (and/or a DR550), read the corresponding chapter as well.

Create a path entry 

You need a path for a backup to indicate where the documents should be copied to. If a backup path

does not yet exist, create it in the ELO Administration Console in the Document paths area.

13 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Select the option Use as backup path.

Leave the Preview path and Full text path fields blank. They will be ignored during backup.

Click Save.

After you have saved the path, the internal ID of the path is displayed.

Create profile 

One backup path is specified for each backup profile. The backup profiles are traversed and

processed at specified intervals. Normally, one profile per path is sufficient.

14 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



In the ELO Administration Console, go to the Document paths area and click Backup profiles.

Click the green plus icon (Create new backup profile).

The Create new backup profile area appears.

Input field Meaning

Profile

name

Any unique profile name within the selected repository, with no spaces or special

characters. The displayed profiles apply for the selected repository, and are managed

by the corresponding ELO Document Manager.

15 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Input field Meaning

SQL Select

(Optional) SQL Select command used to determine which documents are filed.

Normally, you do not need to make an entry here. A default value will be applied. See

section Backing up specific documents only.

Packet size

Maximum number of files processed in each run: 100 (recommended). 0 is also

possible, meaning that a default value of 1000 will be used. Otherwise, values from

about 100 and up are recommended.

Document

path
Select the desired backup path from the drop-down menu.

Slot number
Number of the backup slots from 1 to 4. 1 (recommended) means that slot 1 is used

by this profile. See section Backing up specific documents only.

Retention

Deletion lock in seconds. Only considered by ELO Document Manager when using 

Centera (external storage medium).**0 (recommended)**means: No change to the

lock defined in the ELO Document Manager elodmopt table. If a value greater than 1

is entered, it will be used when writing the backup.

Including

metadata

If this option is selected, a metadata file (extension: ESW) is generated for each

backed up file.

Click Save.

The profile is now available. The profile appears in the list on the left-hand side of the Backup

profiles area.

Information:

You may need to refresh the page to make changes visible.

Delete a profile by clicking the X icon.

Start backup 

To start the backup, open the Backup tasks area under Maintenance in the ELO Administration

Console.

You have the following options:

16 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Option Meaning

Backup profiles

Click Start to start the backup process using the settings from the most recently

selected backup profile. (See the Backup profiles area). Click Stop to stop the

backup immediately.

Backup and

purge

Click Start to start the backup process using the settings from the most recently

selected backup profile. (See the Backup profiles area). Old documents are also

removed. The settings for this mode are located in the lower part of the Backup

tasks area. See also the chapter Remove old documents. Click Stop to stop the

backup immediately.

Click Save to

confirm your

entries.

Click Save to save the settings to automatically remove old documents.

Reset
Click Reset to reset the settings for automatic removal of old documents to the

default values.

Minimum age in

days

This value specifies after how many days old documents may be deleted. A value

of 0 means that all old documents will be deleted.

Comparison

mode

Select the method you want to use to search for old documents: Compare

contents: A document is considered old if the backup contains a document with

identical contents. No comparison: All documents are considered old documents.

Compare contents: A document is considered old if the backup contains a

document of identical size.

Document path
Select the document path from which old documents will be removed. It is

possible to choose from all paths.

17 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Option Meaning

Start hour
Defines at which hour the deletion process will start each day, or if the deletion

process should be run once every hour.

Information

The backup process always starts every time the Apache Tomcat server/the ELO Application

Server is restarted.

Success check 

Open the ELO Document Manager page in a browser and check whether the backup is running. You

can access the status page from ELO 12 with the following navigation path: ELO Indexserver status

page > Configure Options > DM Status.

Alternatively: You can access the status page of the ELO Document Manager with the following URL

schema:

http://<server>:<port>/ix-\<repository name>/plugin/de.elo.dm.plugin/dm?\_cmd\_=status

If the backup is currently running, "running" is shown in the Backup task line. If not, check the ELO

Document Manager log file for error messages.

Start prompts the system to check whether a backup is needed. The setting for execution time is

ignored. This is useful, for example, for function tests.

Now, check whether the backup is working.

If your repository is still empty, file at least one document using the ELO client. A backup process

always takes at least 30 seconds. Afterwards, the counter for Saved documents should increase and

the document should be available on the computer at the selected backup path (assuming you are

not using Centera or a TSM server).

If you have enabled the Including metadata option in the backup profile, an ESW file should be

generated for each backed up document.

18 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Path rerouting 

When a backup path is full, another path can be written to automatically, and the existing path

number will be replaced in the backup profile with the new path number.

Only paths created as backup paths are taken into account.

Additional backup paths must contain a number 1 higher than that of the previous path.

If the first backup path does not contain a number at the end of its name, the name of the next path

must end with 2 (see example 2).

We recommend using leading zeros before the number. The zeros are taken into account (example

3).

Example 1:

The name of your backup path is backup1.

Now create an additional path titled backup2; which should point to another drive or another server.

This would be followed by backup3 etc.

Example 2:

The name of your backup path is xyz.

The next path is xyz2, followed by xyz3, etc.

Example 3:

The name of your backup path is b001.

The next path is b002, followed by b003, etc.

After b009 comes b010.

Path rerouting occurs when a path can no longer be written to. To force or to test path rerouting, all

you have to do is change the rights to the relevant backup directory and its sub-directories such

that the ELO Document Manager can no longer write to it. A corresponding message will then

appear in the ELO Document Manager log file, and the next path will be used if possible.

If the path can no longer be written to, but no follow-up path is available, an error message will

appear on the status page of the ELO Document Manager (in the browser), as well as in the log file.

The backup program will pause for a period and then attempt a backup again.

In this case, create one or more follow-up paths.

Backup slots 

One path number and backup slot are specified in each backup profile. This means that a document

can be backed up to up to four paths, for example on various devices.

19 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Examples

A backup profile called "Test profile" exists. Path number 2 and backup slot 1 are specified for this

profile. This means that all documents are backed up on path 2. This path number 2 is entered in

backup slot 1.

There are two backup profiles:

a) "Test profile1" with path number 2 and backup slot 1

b) "Test profile2" with path number 3 and backup slot 2

This means that all documents on path 2 and path 3 are backed up and are entered to slots 1 and 2.

If you use multiple backup profiles and you want to back up all documents for each profile, you

should try to make sure that the profiles are clearly distinguished from one another. Each profile

should use a different backup slot and path number, so that each slot and each path number occurs

only once.

If you only want to back up certain documents, other settings are more helpful (see section Only

back up certain documents).

When backup documents are no longer in the repository, meaning that they need to be recovered

for access, the first occupied slot with the lowest slot number is always used. The fastest backup

medium should therefore ideally be specified in the profile with the lowest slot number used.

In the elodmdocs database table, backup slot 1 corresponds to pathid2, slot 2 to pathid3, and so on.

Only back up certain documents (SQL Select) 

To only back up certain documents, such as those with a certain file extension, you must enter a

corresponding SQL command to the SQL select field when creating a backup profile.

If you don't enter anything, predefined SQL commands are used. In ELO Document Manager

versions before 7.00.040, no backup could be created from another backup slot - only from the

original. The document IDs of the documents set for backup have been collected with the simple

SQL commands in the following table:

Backup

slot

Simple SQL command (only

backup from original)

Advanced SQL command (backup from backup

slot also possible)

1 (pathid2)
select docid from elodmdocs

where pathid>0 and pathid2=0

select docid from elodmdocs where pathid2=0 and

(pathid>0 or pathid3>0 or pathid4>0 or pathid5>0)

2(pathid3)
select docid from elodmdocs

where pathid>0 and pathid3=0

select docid from elodmdocs where pathid3=0 and

(pathid>0 or pathid2>0 or pathid4>0 or pathid5>0)

3(pathid4)
select docid from elodmdocs

where pathid>0 and pathid4=0

select docid from elodmdocs where pathid4=0 and

(pathid>0 or pathid2>0 or pathid3>0 or pathid5>0)

4(pathid5)
select docid from elodmdocs

where pathid>0 and pathid5=0

select docid from elodmdocs where pathid5=0 and

(pathid>0 or pathid2>0 or pathid3>0 or pathid4>0)

20 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Here, pathid is the path ID of the filing path. Pathid2 to pathid5 are the path IDs for the backup area,

corresponding to backup slots 1 to 4.

A value of 0 means that no path ID has been entered, meaning there is no backup for that slot.

In the database table elodmdocs, a backup profile writing to backup slot 1 (i.e. pathid2) and

entering path number 2 looks like this:

Recommendations for SQL command structure 

ELO Document Manager 7.00.040 and higher uses the advanced SQL commands in the table above

by default to enable backup of another backup slot. You can use the corresponding SQL command

from the table above. However, it should always contain the following:

select docid from elodmdocs

Only then will the document IDs be returned.

Additionally, a condition should be specified that states a path ID is entered somewhere else (in the

filing path or in another backup slot), which means a document exists that can be copied. For

example:

where pathid>0

It is also useful to define a condition that states the path ID is still 0 from the backup slot in use

(pathid2, pathid3, pathid4 or pathid5). For example:

pathid2=0

This condition ensures documents are only backed up once.

A simple example for specific documents in backup slot 1:

select docid from elodmdocs where pathid>0 and pathid2=0 and docid>1000

Please note

ELO Document Manager does not check whether the SQL command is correct or rational.

Therefore, please check whether the SQL commands are executed correctly. Look at the ELO

Document Manager log file and in the elodmdocs database table.

Using ELO Replication 

This section addresses backup used in combination with the ELO Replication module.

21 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



If the ELO Replication module is in use and DDS transfer is enabled for replication, a command

must always be entered to the profile under SQL Select ensuring that DDS replacements that are

only temporarily valid will not be backed up.

When DDS files are transferred, ELO Replication creates small temporary files with the extension 

TXT before the original document is written. However, ELO Document Manager should not create

backups of these temporary documents, as otherwise the original documents to be transferred at a

later time by ELO Replication would no longer be backed up. If old documents are removed without

backup control, only the backed up temporary file would still exist.

These temporary files always have the MD5 hash of 90F7168D4A2F4846E5846A75092F7C83 and

the same contents ("DDS temporary replacement").

To prevent backup of these files, the entry for backup slot 1 would be as follows:

select docid from elodmdocs where pathid\>0 and pathid2=0 and md5 !=

'90F7168D4A2F4846E5846A75092F7C83'

In addition, the creation of MD5 hashes when creating documents must be enabled in ELO

Document Manager. This is normally the case, and can only be disabled manually. Otherwise, the 

md5 column in the elodmdocs table would not be filled, which would make a query to the database

impossible.

EMC Centera 

Procedure 

If you wish to use an EMC Centera for your backup, you must do the following before creating a

backup profile:

You require a Centera SDK from EMC that corresponds to the Document Manager (see

following section Centera SDK and CentraStar versions). If you use Windows, Linux, or

Solaris, you can find the SDK on the ELO DVD (for Windows, both 32-bit and 64-bit versions

are available; otherwise a version for both 32-bit and 64-bit can be used).

Close the ELO client and stop the Apache Tomcat server/the ELO Application Server.

Remove the files for an old Centera SDK if any exist.

Install the SDK files as described in the Installation chapter of the instructions (PDF file) from

EMC. In Linux and Solaris environments, a script must also be run. In Windows, extract the

SDK to a temporary folder and copy (for SDK 3.2 p5) all 8 DLL files from the lib32 or lib64

directory into the Apache Tomcat/ELO Application Server directory bin (i.e. not the file with

the extension LIB). Alternatively, you can use a different directory where the operating

system can find the files.

Copy the FPLibrary.jar file from the SDK to the Apache Tomcat/ELO Application Server

subdirectory shared\lib. If the file already exists from an older Centera SDK, replace it.

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

22 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Linux and Solaris: Check the environment variable LD_LIBRARY_PATH. This must be set in the

profile for the account used to run Apache Tomcat.

Example (for Linux running a 64-bit version of Java):

LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/Centera_SDK/lib/64

Java may not find the libraries, resulting in an UnsatisfiedLinkError upon the first Centera access.

You must then additionally specify java.library.path for Apache Tomcat in the CATALINA_OPTS

environment variable. For example:

CATALINA_OPTS="-Djava.library.path=/usr/local/Centera\_SDK/lib/64"

The variable can be defined in your script that calls the Tomcat start script, for example. The

ELOenterprise DVD contains a small Java program from ELO in the Centera SDK directory that lets

you quickly test Java access to the Centera libraries.

In the corresponding ELO Document Manager, enable the use of the Centera library. Do so

with the following SQL command:

update elodmopt set optval='true' where optno=105

Specify a temporary directory for ELO Document Manager (to which Apache Tomcat has write

access) with an SQL command. If your directory is c:\temp:

update elodmopt set optval= 'c:\temp' where optno=107

Check whether the preset of 600 seconds for retention in ELO Document Manager should be

changed. The length of the deletion lock when writing documents on the Centera can be

defined in three locations:

a) In the ELO Administration Console backup profile

b) In the elodmopt database table (optno=12)

c) In Centera itself

Within these three, a) has the highest priority, b) the second highest, and c) the third-highest. If a

value greater than 0 is entered to the backup profile, this number will be used. If 0 is entered to the

backup profile, the value will be used that is defined in the elodmopt table. If 0 is entered to the 

elodmopt table as well, the Centera preset will be used.

Start Apache Tomcat.

You now have to create an additional path entry in the ELO client.

In the Access path field, enter the IP address or the server name of the Centera, optionally

followed by the port, separated by a colon (the default is port 3218).

Examples :

`100.100.100.1

1. 

1. 

1. 

◦ 

◦ 

◦ 

1. 

1. 

23 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Centera test: 3218'

You may specify multiple Centeras by separating each with a semicolon.

Example:

100.100.100.1:3218;100.100.100.2

You can also specify PEA files (see section Centera profile and PEA file).

Select the Centera path option in the Structure field. Also select the option Use as backup

path.

An example:

Please note

Centera can only be used for backup paths. It can only be used for backup slot 1.

1. 

24 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Older version of Centera SDK 

Information

If ELO was already using an older version of Centera SDK: The Centera log file you could

previously enter in the elodmopt table for logging reasons in older versions is no longer

created starting with SDK 3.1p1. Use the following SQL command to see whether you have

specified such a file:

select \* from elodmopt where optno=106 If this is the case, remove this file specification

with the following: update elodmopt set optval= '' where optno=106

Centera SDK and CentraStar versions 

If possible, use the version of the Centera SDK on the ELO DVD. The following table shows which

alternative versions may be used.

In our experience, the version of CentraStar (which is the version of Centera itself) can also be

higher, so for example an ELOdm and Centera SDK 3.2 will work alongside CentraStar 4.0.

ELO Document

Manager

Centera SDK

used

Other tested Centera

SDKs

Tested

CentraStar

From 4.0 2.3 3.1 p1 3.1

From 5.00.020 3.1 p1 3.2 3.1, 4.0

From 6.00.080 3.2 3.1 p1 4.0

From 8.00.012 3.2 p5 3.2 4.2

Please note

When using combinations that have not yet been tested (of ELO Document Manager, SDK,

and CentraStar), you should perform tests before production use (backup, deletion of old

documents, and restoration of documents).

Centera profile and PEA file 

If your Centera uses a Centera profile, which requires the use of a PEA file for access, there are two

possibilities.

In the document path 

You can specify a PEA file when entering the document path.

Example:

100.120.140.1?D:\Centera\profil.pea

25 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



You may specify multiple Centeras by separating each with a semicolon.

100.120.140.1?D:\Centera\profil.pea;100.120.140.2?D:\Centera\profil2.pea

As environment variable 

Create an environment variable named CENTERA_PEA_LOCATION that is recognized by the account

under which Apache Tomcat/the ELO Application Server runs. If this runs on the system account in

Windows, it must be a system variable. Enter the path and the name of the PEA file as the variable.

For example:

d:\test\profil1.pea

If it is a system variable in Windows, you will have to restart your system, as otherwise the

environment variable will not be activated.

The PEA file must not contain any deletion rights.

Possible error messages when using a Centera profile 

The error message "The use of this operation is restricted" means that a PEA file must be

specified to access the Centera and no PEA file has been found.

The error message "Failed to authenticate PEA data" can result in cases where the PEA file

has not been found. In this latter case, check whether the PEA file is actually located in the

correct location.

Other error messages 

java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: com/filepool/fplibrary/FPPool 

This message occurs in cases where the Centera Java file FPLibrary.jar has not been

found. It must be placed in the Tomcat directory shared\lib. The directory must also be

defined in the Tomcat file catalina.properties, which, however, automatically occurs

during server setup.

java.lang.UnsatisfiedLinkError: com.filepool.natives.FPLibraryNative.setLastError(I)V 

This message occurs if the Centera libraries were not found.

NetApp storage system 

The NetApp system can be used in ELO either as a standard filing path or as a path for backups.

Please note

When using the NetApp system, Apache Tomcat/the ELO Application Server cannot run on

the system account. You must use an account that is able to access the other server. This

account must have full access to the Tomcat/ELO Application Server directory, as well as to

the configuration and data directories of the individual web applications. We recommend

changing the owner of these directories and files accordingly.

• 

• 

• 

◦ 

• 

◦ 

26 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



With SnapLock 

If you also want to use the SnapLock function, the hardware ensures that files can only be deleted

after a period of time that you specify.

If you use the SnapLock functionality when backing up the ELO Document Manager, you have two

ways of specifying the period in which a document is protected:

Use the Default retention period for the NetApp system

Set the retention period when filing to the ELO client. If the document is saved by the backup

program in the ELO Document Manager, the latter date will be used. If this date falls outside

an interval defined on the NetApp volume, it will be automatically modified by the NetApp

system.

Information

When using SnapLock, enable the WORM path option in ELO when creating the document

path.

NetApp system as default filing path 

Please note

You should also enable the WORM path option when using it as the default filing path.

However, this means the document status of Version control disabled (previously Freely

editable) can no longer be used. Additionally, it is no longer possible to move paths and

remove old documents. If the WORM path option is not enabled (not recommended), errors

may occur when removing old documents. Conflicts may arise between the default settings

for storage (default retention period) and the NetApp limit date. It is possible that database

entries are changed, but the corresponding documents will not be able to be deleted.

Backup function test with SnapLock 

Create a backup path on the Network Appliance server.

Create the backup path in the ELO Administration Console. Enable the WORM path option.

Create a corresponding backup profile.

On the ELO Document Manager status page, check whether backup is running. If not, start it

in the ELO Administration Console.

File a document in the ELO client.

Attempt to delete the backed up file in the file system. This should not be possible if

SnapLock is working.

1. 

2. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

27 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Using retention periods in the ELO client 

If you want to set a retention period (in older versions: expiration date) in the ELO client, you must

make some changes in the ELO Document Manager. The ELO Document Manager must be set to log

the last access date for a document after the document has been backed up.

Information

The retention period is only set for the backup, not when using the NetApp system as the

default filing path. You can specify NetApp date entries up to January 17, 2071 for the

retention period. The ELO Document Manager automatically corrects later retention periods

by setting them to the last possible date.

Procedure

In the database, enable the option to set the last access date on the backup

(USE_BACKUP_LAST_ACCESS). Also, in the elodmopt database table, change the value for

record 108 to true for the affected repository. You can use the following SQL command:

update elodmopt set optval='true' where optno=108

If the record does not yet exist, create it. Use the following SQL command to do so:

insert into elodmopt values (108,'true','USE\_BACKUP\_LAST\_ACCESS')

Restart Apache Tomcat.

Now the ELO Document Manager sets the last access date for documents on the backup. However,

this is only the case if a document retention period has been set in the ELO client.

Function test 

Create a backup path on the NetApp server.

Create the document path. Enable the options to Use as backup path and WORM path.

Set up the backup profile accordingly.

View the path in Windows Explorer. The date/time of the last access is not shown here by

default. To change this, go to the View tab and add the Date accessed column.

1. 

1. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

28 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Open the ELO Document Manager status page to see if Backup is running. Start it if it is not.

File a document to ELO. Set a retention period some time in the future.

As soon as the file is saved to the backup path, check the date of last access in Windows

Explorer. The date must match the retention period entered to ELO and must also lie in the

future.

Check whether the file can be deleted. If SnapLock is working, it should not be possible to

delete the file.

Possible problems 

If the last access time is not correct, check the ELO Document Manager log file to see

whether the following line was set:

<Time> INFO (EswLastAcc.java) – backup: last access date was set

IBM DR550 and Tivoli Storage Manager 

Software requirements 

Either an IBM Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM) server or an IBM DR550 can be used. The TSM server

software is installed on the DR550. This software must already be completely configured.

Information

A TSM server cannot be used as the default filing path.

Required software 

TSM server version 5.2.2 or higher (this is checked by the ELO Document Manager) 

Tested versions: 5.3.3 (32-bit), 6.1.4.1 (64-bit)

TSM client version 5.2.2 or higher (must be installed on the same server as the ELO

Document Manager) 

Tested versions: 5.3.2 (32-bit), 5.5.3.1 (64-bit), 6.1.4.0 (32-bit), and 6.2.1.0 (32-bit)

Two TSM Java API files from IBM (located in the Apache Tomcat directory: 

prog\serversetup\configdata\lib\tsm): 

TsmJavaApi.dll

TsmJavaApi.jar

Restrictions 

The following restrictions can occur.

6. 

7. 

8. 

• 

• 

◦ 

• 

◦ 

• 

◦ 

◦ 

29 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Only one Document Manager per Apache Tomcat 

Only one ELO Document Manager per Apache Tomcat/ELO Application Server may access the TSM.

Otherwise, the IBM library will return the error message:

error in tsmSetUp: ANS0238E (RC2041) The sequence of calls is invalid

If multiple repositories need access to the TSM, each ELOdm must be installed to a separate

Apache Tomcat. However, only one ELO Access Manager is required.

Only with a 32-bit Java version 

The TSM Java API files from IBM are only available for the 32-bit version of Java. The ELO Document

Manager that accesses the TSM must be installed on a 32-bit version of Apache Tomcat/the ELO

Application Server.

At present, access from ELOdm to the TSM server has only been tested in a Windows environment.

For other operating systems, special conditions may need to be fulfilled.

TSM server configuration 

The TSM server must be configured so data can be saved to it.

A physical tape drive must not be used, as then the access times would be too long to work

with the Document Manager.

A primary storage pool is required. If you want to run more than one TSM session per ELO

Document Manager, a storage pool with random access should be used (unit class: DISK). If

subsequent media are defined, they must be of the same type, i.e. not with sequential

access. Otherwise, simultaneous accesses would block each other until the end of the

affected TSM session. More than one TSM session per ELO Document Manager is currently not

recommended for production use, but it is at least possible for testing environments. With

only one session, a storage pool with sequential access (unit class: FILE) can be used, such

as for a virtual tape drive.

A copy group of type Archive will be required (not Backup).

In the used copy group, a value of NOLIMIT should be entered for Retain Version if possible,

so that documents will not be deleted without the ELO Document Manager being notified of

such.

A client node with the corresponding password must be created for the ELO Document

Manager that will access the TSM server. This password must not be set to expire. Any node

name is possible, and it can be identical to the ELO repository name.

Normally, only one mount point is required. 

To create it, you can use the following command in the TSM console (<name> is the

node name, <password> is the password):

register node <name> <password> passexp=0 domain=standard

Installing the software 

Install the TSM client on the server that will also run the Document Manager.

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

◦ 

1. 

30 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Information

The 32-bit TSM runtime files are required on the server running the ELO Document Manager.

This means that if a 64-bit version of Windows is running on the server, you can only install

a 64-bit TSM client. To install it, use the adjusted setup and select the Client API (32-bit)

runtime files feature.

If ELOdm is not yet installed, please install it on a 32-bit Apache Tomcat/ELO Application

Server.

Stop Apache Tomcat/the ELO Application Server.

Copy TsmJavaApi.dll to the Apache Tomcat/ELO Application Server directory \bin.

Alternatively, you can use a different directory where the file can be found by the

operating system in a specific path.

Copy TsmJavaApi.jar to the Apache Tomcat/ELO Application Server child directory shared\lib.

Enter any missing records to the elodmopt database table if needed. With older versions of

the ELO Document Manager, these do not yet exist, especially the data set with optid=19.

SQL commands for the required new data sets (preset values):

1. 

2. 

3. 

◦ 

4. 

5. 

insert into elodmopt values (19,'1','TSM SESSIONS');

insert into elodmopt values (109,'false','USE TSM');

insert into elodmopt values (110,'','TSM DSMI_CONFIG');

insert into elodmopt values (111,'','TSM DSMI_DIR');

insert into elodmopt values (112,'','TSM DSMI_LOG');

insert into elodmopt values (113,'','TSM CLIENT NODE');

insert into elodmopt values (114,'','TSM CLIENT NODE PWD');

insert into elodmopt values (115,'','TSM FILESPACE NAME');

31 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Change the values in the optval column as described in the following section.

Records in the 'elodmopt' table 

The following records in the elodmopt database table are meaningful when using TSM:

The ELO Document Manager reads the records at startup. Any time manual changes are made, the

ELO Document Manager must be restarted. The entries in the remark column will not be evaluated

by the ELO Document Manager, as they are only comments.

Optid remark Explanation for the optval column

19 TSM SESSIONS
Number of TSM sessions. More than one session is not recommended for

productive use.

107 TEMP_PATH

An already existing directory for temporary files on the Document

Manager, to which Apache Tomcat/the ELO Application Server has write

access. The entry is already entered if Centera is in use, in which case no

changes are necessary. For example:c:\temp

109 USE TSM

Determines whether TSM should be used (true or false). This allows the

TSM to be turned on and off, regardless of whether the other data sets

exist. However, if it is turned off, access to the TSM will no longer be

possible.

110
TSM

DSMI_CONFIG

TSM configuration file with path, such as: C:\ELOenterprise\config\dm-

elo\dsm.opt(See the following section) The operating system environment

variable with the same name will not be used.

111 TSM DSMI_DIR

Directory that contains the language files for the TSM client (in Windows

this is dscenu.txt). Enter the corresponding child directory in the TSM

client installation here. For example: C:\Programme\Tivoli\TSM\baclien

The operating system environment variable with the same name will not

be used.

112 TSM DSMI_LOG
Directory for the log file (dsierror.log). The operating system environment

variable with the same name will not be used.

113
TSM CLIENT

NODE
Name of the client node. This must exist on the TSM server.

114
TSM CLIENT

NODE PWD

Password for the client node, in cleartext (will be encrypted when ELOdm

next starts).

115
TSM FILESPACE

NAME

TSM File space name. Recommendation: no special characters or umlauts.

The name is converted to lowercase and ELOdm automatically places a

backslash in front of the name.

insert into elodmopt values (116,'DEFAULT','TSM MANAGEMENT CLASS');

insert into elodmopt values (117,'true',

'TSM ARCHIVE RET PROTECTION');

1. 

32 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Optid remark Explanation for the optval column

116

TSM

MANAGEMENT

CLASS

TSM management class. This will be used when saving files. Please note

that the desired storage pool will be used. Uppercase or lowercase does

not matter. Example: DEFAULT

117

TSM ARCHIVE

RET

PROTECTION

Determines whether retention protection should be used, and if it should

be checked that it is running on the TSM server (true or false). If using a

DR550, true must be entered here.

TSM configuration file 'dsm.opt' 

The TSM configuration file exists for additional settings for the TSM to be able to be set. The file can

be empty.

Recommendation: Create the file in the configuration directory of the ELO Document Manager.

Example: C:\ELOenterprise\config\dm-elo

If a port needs to be entered for the TSM server, which is normally not necessary, you can do so in

the file (the entry then refers to all TSM servers in use). For example: TCPPORT 1500

Create backup path 

You must note the following options when you create a backup path with access to a TSM server:

Enter the server name or IP address of the TSM server in the Path field.

You can add relative path entries if you wish (they will be converted to lowercase). A

question mark needs to be placed between the server ID and the relative path.

Examples:

dr550?abc or

192.168.60.2?abc/def

A forward slash may not be placed directly after the question mark. A forward slash at the

end will be removed. If you create multiple DR550 paths, please ensure that you always use

the same entry before the question mark, because at least one session will be created for

each server name. Otherwise, this would cause multiple sessions to be established

unintentionally. The used TSM server names can be seen on the Document Manager status

page.

Select the TSM path option in the Structure field.

Information

If you want to create more than one backup path to a TSM server per ELO Document

Manager, use relative paths. Additional path entries with the same server name would still

work, but still only one session for this server would be created. A TSM server should not be

entered once using the server name and then in an additional entry, e.g. under its IP

• 

• 

◦ 

◦ 

• 

33 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



address, as this would establish two sessions to the same server, which could block

simultaneous accesses, depending on the storage pool in use.

Backup profile 

Note the following information on using a backup profile with a TSM server:

The default setting of 0 should be used in the Retention field.

The TSM can be used in any backup slot.

Function tests 

Regularly check the status page and the ELO Document Manager log file, as well as the TSM

server log file (dsierror.log, see table above).

Check whether the ELO Document Manager starts at all. The TSM server is only accessed

when documents are backed up or restored.

Check whether the backup service is running (see section Check).

Document backup to the TSM server should work without putting out error messages. If a

connection to the TSM server cannot be established, another attempt will be made later.

Test whether documents can be restored (not recommended for productive repositories!).

Also test the purge documents feature. Use the current date as the expiration date. The

backed up documents will first be deleted from the hard drive. After restarting the ELO client,

the old documents should be restored from the TSM server when you attempt to access

them.

Other notes 

Please also note the following.

Filing structure of documents on the TSM server 

If you intend to use more than one ELO Document Manager with a TSM connection, you should

know the filing structure, in order to avoid writing in the same data range. If they write data in the

same range, although no documents will be lost, various documents with various TSM object IDs

will be created. This means it will be unclear which documents will be retrieved after a query.

Incidentally, this can also occur if the elodmdocs table is manipulated in such a way that

documents are stored a second time on the TSM.

The following values are decisive for the filing structure:

Client node name

The ELO Document Manager will log on to the TSM as a client node. A node does not normally

see the files in another node.

File space name

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

34 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



The file space name is roughly the same as the drive letter. It is defined in the elodmopt

table. Example: elofs1.

High level name

The high level name is comparable to the directories. The ELO Document Manager uses the

repository name, followed by a special directory name.

Example (repository name = EXTEN1): EXTEN1/upr00000

If relative path entries are used, the high level name is placed after the relative path,

separated from each other with a forward slash.

Example : servername?abc would turn into: abc/EXTEN1/upr00000

Low level name

The low level name is comparable to the file name, e.g. 00000001.jpg.

These three entries combine to form the following filing structure for the first document, when the

file space name, high level name, and low level name are written in sequence:

/elofs1/EXTEN1/upr00000/00000001.jpg

With another ELO Document Manager, it looks like this (with the same file space name):

/elofs1/EXTEN2/upr00000/00000001.jpg

If each ELO Document Manager has its own node name, there should be no problems.

Alternatively (or in addition), you can also define a different file space name for each ELO

Document Manager.

A name of a repository always refers to a specific ELO Document Manager.

Conclusion 

Care should be taken in the configuration if, in addition to a server with a production system, a

server with a test system with its own database is to be used, that however is to access the same

TSM.

'Remove old documents' dialog box 

If the ELO Document Manager only establishes one session per TSM server, only one access to the

TSM server can take place at one time. Further access attempts must then wait. In this case, wait

times may arise when restoring purged documents.

Additionally, the Do not restore from backup option should not be enabled in this case. That option

can also result in wait times.

• 

• 

35 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Other 

Information

The expiration date, which can be set for documents in the ELO client, is disregarded when

using TSM.

36 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



'Remove old documents' dialog box 

You can use this function to remove seldom-needed old documents from the filing path after a

backup.

Please note

If the WORM path option is active for a path, no old documents will be removed.

Automatically remove old documents 

It is also possible to remove old documents during the backup process.

Procedure 

Open the Backup tasks area in the ELO Administration Console.

Select the desired settings.

Minimum age in days: This value specifies after how many days old documents may be deleted. A

value of 0 means that all old documents will be deleted.

Compare mode: This is where you select the mode used to search for old documents.

Compare contents: A document is considered old if the backup contains a document with

identical contents.

1. 

1. 

• 

• 

37 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



No comparison: All documents are considered old documents.

Compare contents: A document is considered old if the backup contains a document of

identical size.

Document path: Select the document path from which old documents will be removed. It is

possible to choose from all paths.

Start hour: Defines at which hour the deletion process will start each day, or if the deletion process

should be run once every hour.

Click Start after the Backup and purge menu item to start the process.

Database settings 

The settings for backup and automatic removal are also located in the elodmopt database table.

Information

After making a change to the elodmopt table, restart the ELO Document Manager or Apache

Tomcat to apply the changes.

The table on the following page explains these values.

optno optval remark Explanation

13 0 BACKUP_MODE Please do not change this value. It will be set by ELOdm.

0 = Do not start backup

1 = Backup without deletion

2 = Backup with deletion

14 1000 PURGE_DAY_LIMIT Number of days (from 0) before today.

Examples :

365 = one year or older

0 = today or older (i.e. all documents)

When using NetApp, be aware that documents can only

be deleted after a certain period of time if you have set

this option in NetApp. Example: If a half year has been

set in NetApp, enter 183 here (always round up).

15 0 PURGE_PATH_ID Possible path restriction for filing paths:

0 = include all paths

1 or higher = path with corresponding path ID

16 2 PURGE_FILE_CHECK_MODE Comparison type:

2 = By file size

3 = By file content

17 20 PURGE_START_HOUR When processing should take place:

-1 = Every 60 minutes

• 

1. 

38 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



optno optval remark Explanation

0 to 23 = Hour of the day, such as 20 for 8:00 p.m.

Control 

Check that automatic deletion is running. Also check the ELO Document Manager status page. The

value running should appear in the Purge task line. If not, check the ELO Document Manager log file

for error messages.

If the check for automatic deletion finds matching documents, the number after Purged documents

should increase.

The Last purge time row shows you the last time documents were removed.

The Next purge check row shows you when the next check for old documents will be performed.

Do not restore documents 

Whenever a user views a file removed from the filing path (old document removed) in the ELO

client, the file is restored from the backup path. If you want to prevent this, enable the Do not

restore from backup option when creating the backup path.

39 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Deleting backup documents 

Activation 

The Delete permanently function does not affect old documents when used with default settings.

This means that old documents will not be deleted permanently. However, the function can be

extended correspondingly.

Please note

The expansion is not possible for paths with the WORM path option enabled.

The expansion of the Delete permanently function occurs through the elodmopt database table.

The value of the optno=20 record is decisive here. If it does not exist, you can create it with the

following SQL command:

insert into elodmopt values (20,'0','DELETE_BACKUP_FILE_MODE (0=off, 1=file system, 2=extern

storage devices, 3=all)')

Please note

If deletion protection is enabled, for example on Centera or NetApp, deletion will not be

possible. Use values of 1 or 2 as alternatives.

optno
optval

(default)
remark Explanation

20 0 DELETE_BACKUP_FILE_MODE 0 = do not delete backup files

1 = only delete backup files on the file system

2 = only delete backup files on external data

storage devices (such as Centera or Azure Blob)

3 = delete backup files

Information

Backup documents that have been backed up using the Activator interface can only be

deleted if the newer Activator libraries (after 2009) are used.

Restriction with MD5 paths 

With MD5 paths, only one original copy may exist for each file. If an identical file is used

somewhere else, it is considered as a reference to the original file. Thus, when deleting documents

from MD5 paths, the ELO Document Manager must check whether a file is still in use somewhere

else. For each backup slot, a check will be performed to see if a file may be deleted.

40 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



If, however, the same MD5 path is used in multiple backup profiles, a file may occur in multiple

backup slots. In this case, deletion must be prevented from that path. There are a few ways to

achieve this:

Disable deletion of backup documents (a value of 0 for the optno 20 record).

Only delete backup files on external storage devices like Centera or Azure Blob (a value of 2

for the optno 20 record), but only if no MD5 path is used.

Set the affected MD5 path as a WORM path. In that case, however, no temporary files will be

used with the backup.

Manual deletion 

Important

No files can be deleted manually on the file system or on external data storage devices,

since these are still stored in the database.

If a backup device fails completely or becomes unusable in such a way that the backed up

documents no longer exist on a backup slot, this must be applied to the database. To do so, the

backup service must be stopped and the path column must be set to 0 for the affected backup slot

in the elodmdocs database table (slot 1 corresponds to the pathid2 column, slot 2 corresponds to 

pathid3, and so on).

Sample SQL command for backup slot 1:

update elodmdocs set pathid2=0

Additionally, the backup profile in use should be deleted if the backup device is no longer available.

• 

• 

• 

41 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Passwords

Creating encrypted and encoded passwords 

In the Create password area of the ELO Administration Console, you can create encrypted/encoded

passwords for ELO.

Input: Enter the unencrypted password in the Input field.

The encrypted/encoded passwords appear automatically in the Encrypted ELO password, Encrypted

ELOas database password, and Encoded Base64 password fields.

42 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Click the document icon to the right of the fields to copy the field contents to the Windows

clipboard.

43 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Preview documents

Information 

Please note

Starting with ELO 21.4, ELO Textreader (gen. 2) replaces the previous ELO Textreader (ELOtr),

ELO Preview Converter (ELOpreview), and ELO OCR Service (ELOocr).

For more information, refer to the ELO Textreader (gen. 2) documentation.

44 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Document redaction

Introduction 

This document describes how to configure the ELO Document Manager to use the redaction feature

in ELO, which allows the user to redact parts of TIFF documents in the repository using a black

rectangle. This does not change the original document. The user can configure permissions to only

allow specific users or groups to see the area underneath the black rectangle.

The ELO Document Manager performs redaction on the original image file provided to the client

application. This means that it is not possible for users without the required permissions to view or

copy the text behind the redaction mark.

Please note

Before you can use the redaction tool, you need to make changes in SQL Server. For more

information about the entries in SQL, refer to the chapter Activation on the server. This is

also necessary if you can click the Redaction function in the viewer toolbar.

45 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Requirements 

ELOenterprise or ELOprofessional 6.00.080 or higher (server version).

Apache Tomcat version 6.0.20 or higher. If Apache Tomcat 6.0.24 or higher is used, you must

use version 7.00.020 or higher of the ELO Document Manager.

Uncompressed TIFF files, or TIFF files with LZW, packbits, CCITT, or ZIP compression. JPEG

compression in TIFF files is not supported. Some older compression settings are also

unsupported. In this case, the image is not created.

Server: Windows, Linux (Mac OS is not supported).

Warning

If you use document redaction with file formats other than those listed here, redaction may

not work properly and text may still be visible.

In addition, configuration errors can disable document redaction.

Only use document redaction in controlled environments.

• 

• 

• 

• 

46 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Activation on the server 

To enable document redaction on the server, you need to change two settings in the ELO Document

Manager elodmopt table:

Enable TIFF redaction:

First, check whether the required data set exists:

If the data set already exists:

If it doesn't exist:

Define a temporary directory that must already exist. It is best to set a different directory for

each ELO Document Manager, such as:

Restart the ELO Application Server running the ELO Indexserver.

1. 

select * from elodmopt where optno=122

update elodmopt set optval='true' where optno=122

insert into elodmopt values (122, 'true', 'TIFF MASK ACTIVE')

2. 

update elodmopt set optval='c:\temp\elo\archive1' where optno=107

3. 

47 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Test in the ELO client 

Open a TIFF file in the repository.

In the document viewer toolbar, select the function Redaction.

Use the mouse to drag a box around the part of the document you want to redact.

1. 

2. 

3. 

48 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Now right-click and select the entry Permissions.

Select the users and/or groups who should be able to see the text.

Option 1: Edit the permission settings for the users/groups.

Option 2: Click the X icon to remove the selected user's permissions to the part that has been

redacted. The user can no longer see the text on that part of the document.

Click OK.

4. 

5. 

6. 

49 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



The changes are applied. If a user logs on who does not have permissions to the redacted

area, they will not be able to see the redacted information.

50 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation



Other comments 

If a user without permission for the redacted part checks the document's checksum, an

invalid status is shown, as the local version with redaction deviates from the original

document.

Redacted documents can only be edited by users with permission for the redacted parts.

Users without permissions can check the documents out and view the redacted version.

However, they are unable to check them back in.

• 

• 

51 ELO server ‒ Installation and operation


	Table of contents
	Paths and URLs
	Introduction
	Document paths
	Creating a new document path

	Default document paths
	Move document files
	Manage URLs

	ELO OCR Service
	Information

	ELO Indexserver OCR
	Information

	Textreader
	Information

	Backup service
	Backup
	Note on ELO Replication
	Procedure
	Check license
	Settings for Centera, NetApp, and DR550
	Create a path entry
	Create profile
	Start backup
	Success check
	Path rerouting
	Backup slots
	Examples

	Only back up certain documents (SQL Select)
	Recommendations for SQL command structure
	Using ELO Replication


	EMC Centera
	Procedure
	Older version of Centera SDK
	Centera SDK and CentraStar versions
	Centera profile and PEA file
	In the document path
	As environment variable
	Possible error messages when using a Centera profile

	Other error messages

	NetApp storage system
	With SnapLock
	NetApp system as default filing path
	Backup function test with SnapLock

	Using retention periods in the ELO client
	Procedure
	Function test
	Possible problems


	IBM DR550 and Tivoli Storage Manager
	Software requirements
	Required software
	Restrictions
	Only one Document Manager per Apache Tomcat
	Only with a 32-bit Java version

	TSM server configuration
	Installing the software
	Records in the 'elodmopt' table
	TSM configuration file 'dsm.opt'
	Create backup path
	Backup profile
	Function tests
	Other notes
	Filing structure of documents on the TSM server
	Conclusion

	'Remove old documents' dialog box
	Other



	'Remove old documents' dialog box
	Automatically remove old documents
	Procedure

	Database settings
	Control
	Do not restore documents


	Deleting backup documents
	Activation
	Restriction with MD5 paths
	Manual deletion


	Passwords
	Creating encrypted and encoded passwords

	Preview documents
	Information

	Document redaction
	Introduction
	Requirements
	Activation on the server
	Test in the ELO client
	Other comments


