






























ELO XC | Operation


ELO XC

Operation



3

3

13

21

Table of contents

Operation

ELO XC Manager 

Instance overview 

Tools 

2 ELO XC



Operation

ELO XC Manager 

Overview 

ELO XC Manager is a browser-based interface that is integrated into ELO XC. To access the

interface, the service must be running. It provides functions for managing and configuring the

service and contains these areas:

Logon screen: This screen is where you can log on as an ELO user.

Menu: The ribbon contains status indicators and additional functions.

Instance overview: This page contains an overview of all instances that are registered for the

selected Indexserver.

Instance configuration: This page contains the configuration of a single instance.

Miscellaneous: This includes different tools, additional functions and/or notifications. 

The display texts and icons in the manager often have tooltips. If you move the cursor over a text

or icon and remain there, the information will appear. Configuration parameters always feature a

tooltip.

Many ELO XC functions that you can access in the Manager trigger complex actions and can

therefore take a few moments. The Manager indicates the execution status of the function.

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

3 ELO XC



Many areas of the interface are first displayed in a minimized view during a Manager session.

These areas feature vertical arrow icons that enable you to show or hide the options.

Authentication 

An Indexserver needs to be available so that you can log on to ELO XC Manager. If instances have

already been registered, you can double-click to view a list of the Indexservers already in use. The

ELO user account must have main administrator permissions.

Menu 

4 ELO XC



1 Home: Navigation on the instance overview page

2 ELO XC version number

3 Server type (values: PROD, TEST, DEV)

4 Indexserver you are connected to

5 Version number of the Indexserver you are connected to

6 Service notification: All service notifications

7 Tools drop-down menu: Access to various functions

8 User drop-down menu: Log out and help options

Service notifications 

Function calls in the manager are usually acknowledged with status messages that you can view in

the list of service notifications. These notifications are only kept for a certain time if they have

been displayed at least once.

5 ELO XC



Green: If there are new success notifications, the counter is green.

Yellow: If there are notifications with at least one new warning, the counter is yellow.

Red: If the list contains at least one error notification, the counter is red. If all notifications have

been displayed at least once, the counter will not be shown with a color.

'User' drop-down menu 

Documentation: Opens this documentation (ELO Docs).

About ELO XC: Displays additional information about the product.

Log off: Ends the current session.

6 ELO XC



'Tools' drop-down menu 

The Tools drop-down menu provides access to various functions. You will find more information

about these in the Tools and help section.

Instance overview 

The instance overview is the home screen in ELO XC Manager. This is where you will find all

registered Indexserver instances. To switch Indexservers, you have to end the current session and

log on to ELO XC Manager again.

7 ELO XC



The registered instances are shown in a list.

1 Register instance: Add an instance to ELOxc.xml.

2 Unique name of the instance

3 Status of the instance

4 Edit registration: Edit the ELO user and password.

5 Delete registration: Removes the registration from ELOxc.xml.

6 Start processing: Activates the instance and starts processing according to the configuration.

7 Processing statistics: Displays the processing statistics of the instance.

8 Edit configuration: Opens the instance configuration.

9 Publish configuration: Activates the working version of the service configuration.

Instance configuration 

1 Configuration functions: Functions for the entire instance configuration.

2 Tree functions: Functions for action trees

3 Tree view/Form view: Functions for displaying the tree/form

8 ELO XC



4 Form functions: Functions for form parameters

5 Configuration structure: Tree view area

6 Parameters: Form view area

All processing parameters of an instance are defined in the instance configuration.

The instance configuration is divided into two areas. The left side contains the tree view structure.

All configuration nodes of the instance are displayed here. When you select a node, you see the

corresponding paramaters in the form view on the right.

Configuration functions 

1 Validation: The current instance configuration is checked for plausibility errors.

2 Load service configuration: If no mailbox catalog has been loaded once the configuration page

opens, this function is also executed once.

3 Load master data: The master data of the ELO repository (e.g. users, metadata forms, encryption

keys) are reloaded.

4 Load mailbox catalog: The mailbox catalog is reloaded with the current connection parameters.

5 Mailbox usage: The usage of catalog mailboxes in the current configuration is displayed in a

separate dialog box. You can also assign mailboxes to list templates here.

6 Mailbox registrations: This is where you can manage mailboxes statically configured by mailbox

owners and save them to the configuration.

9 ELO XC



Configuration structure 

1 Configuration level: Instance: Configuration node of the current instance

2 Configuration level: Templates: Configuration nodes of the current templates

3 Configuration level: Action trees: Configuration node of the action trees

4 Configuration level: Actions: Configuration nodes of the actions

10 ELO XC



Tree functions 

Functions

1 Add action tree: You can add action trees when

you select an instance node. 

2 Delete: The current configuration is deleted. 

3 Copy: The current configuration node is copied

to the clipboard. 

4 Insert copy: The configuration node on the

clipboard is pasted at the selected position.

1 Add template: When you select the template

node, you can add individual templates.

2 Delete

3 Copy

4 Insert copy

1 Add action: You can add actions when you select

an action tree or an action. 

2 Delete

3 Copy

4 Insert copy

5 Move action tree forward: The selected action

tree is moved forward by one position.

6 Move action tree back: The selected action tree

is moved back by one position.

11 ELO XC



Functions

1 Add action

2 Delete

3 Copy

4 Insert copy

5 Invert action logic: The execution condition of

the current action is inverted. If it is true, it

changes to false, and vice versa.

Some tree functions depend on the selected node type, while others apply universally for all nodes.

Form functions 

1 Save: Changes to parameters are saved.

2 Undo: Changes to parameters are reversed.

3 Parameter help: Displays the parameter help for the current configuration type.

Display functions 

1 Expand configuration nodes :The nodes below the selected node are displayed.

2 Collapse configuration nodes :The nodes below the selected node are hidden.

3 Expand tree view: Widens the view of the configuration.

4 Expand form view: Widens the view of the form.

5 Expand form level: Displays another form level.

6 Collapse form level: Hides the lowest form level.

12 ELO XC



Instance overview 

Register instance 

To register a new instance, you need to run the Register new instance function in the instance

overview.

A dialog box opens where you must first enter the ELO account and a unique name for the instance.

When you click Register, your entries are transferred to the ELOxc.xml file. A success message is

displayed in the dialog box.

If you select Finish at this point of the registration, you will get an empty instance configuration

that you have to configure before it can be used.

If you continue by clicking Next, you can create a standard, fully configured and executable

instance in the following steps. First, you need to select a catalog type:

• 

13 ELO XC



For on-premises Exchange servers, choose the ldap type.

If you want to process mailboxes in the Microsoft Cloud, you need m365.

You must run a catalog test for the connection parameters to be accepted. You will see a

corresponding message if it is successful.

• 

14 ELO XC



You can now enter a mailbox of the catalog to run an EWS test.

If the EWS test is successful, you will get a corresponding message.

Click Next to specify details of the instance configuration.

15 ELO XC



 

Scheduled: Instances are always scheduled. Include a scheduled pause in processing if required.

Create mailbox lists: When you create mailbox lists, all cataloged mailboxes are included in list

templates and assigned to action trees.

Standard archiving: With the Standard archiving option, a simple action tree for processing user

mailboxes is created.

Standard deletion: The Standard deletion option allows you to create an action tree for deleting

stored messages.

Journal archiving, journal deletion: Action trees for processing journal mailboxes can be generated

in the same way as for the Standard archiving/Standard deletion option.

Archiving age, deletion age: The Archiving age and Deletion age options determine the minimum

age of messages so that they can be selected respectively by the Archive and Delete action trees.

Select Finish to generate the configuration.

Afterwards, the newly registered instance appears in the overview.

The instance state is automatically Load error for newly created instances. This means that the

service configuration could not be loaded because the new instance configuration is in the

workspace and must be published before it can be put into operation.

16 ELO XC



Publish configuration 

If there are differences between the service configuration and the working version in the manager,

the instance state is marked as unpublished.

To activate a working version, it must be published. If the instance was started, you need to stop it

before you can publish the configuration. You cannot change the configuration of a service once it is

running.

Publish allows you to commit the working version to the service. Once it is successfully published,

the unpublished status tag disappears.

Change registration 

With the ELO logon option, you can change the account used for registration at any time. However,

keep in mind that the account must always be one that has main administrator privileges.

Delete registration 

If you no longer need an instance, you can use Delete to remove the registry entry from ELOxc.xml.

Before this process is completed, you must confirm the deletion.

Start/stop instance 

17 ELO XC



You can manually start a stopped instance. Click the instance stopped button.

Depending on the selected mailbox catalog, the instance can take a few moments to start. A

started instance in wait mode is marked with the started status.

A started instance that is currently executing a job is marked with the processing status.

If you click the button when the instance is started, the instance will be stopped at the next

possible time. This process may take a few moments depending on the current instance activity.

You can view the processing status of an active instance (processing state) at any time. Open the

processing statistics with this button:

Processing statistics 

The processing statistics are divided into two parts. The first part can be opened as a short

overview below each instance.

The values are valid as long as an instance is active. They are displayed as cumulative values. The

current values are determined from the job that is currently running. At the end of the job, they are

added to the total values.

The total statistics are stored as a collection of documents in the ELO repository under //

Administration//XC Base//STATS//<instance name> and are updated by each job.

By clicking on Overall statistics, you can view the recorded values. The values recorded for jobs are

grouped into days, months, and years. Completed units are always grouped into the next larger

unit. The jobs of a single day are grouped into daily statistics. When all daily statistics in a month

are completed (because a new month has started), these daily statistics are grouped into monthly

statistics. When a new year starts, all monthly statistics are combined into the annual statistics of

18 ELO XC



the previous year. In the figure, this relationship is shown in the second and third columns of the

area header.

If you expand an area, you will get the values grouped by action trees.

1 Period covered – Day, month, year

2 Period as calendar value

3 Total duration of jobs in the period

4 Average data transfer rate to ELO repository

5 Number of jobs in the period

6 Mailboxes or * for all

7 Number of items selected

8 Number of folders processed

9 Number of processing errors

10 Number of deleted items

11 Number of archived items

12 Volume archived

13 Wildcard as name for all action trees

14 Name of an action tree

19 ELO XC



If you expand the action tree area, you will get the statistical values for each mailbox. The total

statistics of the action tree are marked with * in the first line.

20 ELO XC



Tools 

The ELO XC Manager tools are a collection of useful functions to help you configure and manage

instances. They can be accessed from the tools menu.

Service settings 

You can change the values of the ELOxc.xml in the Service settings dialog box.

Information

In most cases, you will need to restart ELO XC for the changes to take effect.

21 ELO XC



HTTPS port, Host name: Host name and HTTPS port determine the base URL of ELO XC.

Log directory, Log age, Log detail: Log directory, Log age, and Log detail determine the log

settings.

Certificate or PFX file path/PFX password: Certificate or PFX file path/PFX password configure

the SSL certificate of the internal ELO XC web host.

Stop timeout, Stop repeats: Stop timeout and Stop repeats can be changed if the service does

not respond on stop attempts.

Maximum number of HTTP connections, Maximum HTTP idle time [ms], Reuse HTTP ports: 

Maximum number of HTTP connections, Maximum HTTP idle time (milliseconds) and Reuse

HTTP ports define the behavior of ELO XC when using web requests (e.g. IX, EWS). This

mainly affects the use of system resources. The higher the number and idle time of the

connections are, the longer it takes to free up system resources. It only makes sense to

utilize a high amount of resources if the ports are also being reused (reducing overhead on

initialization). The default settings should deliver stable, efficient results in most

environments.

GC age [s]: GC age (seconds) specifies the maximum wait time before ELO XC frees up

orphaned memory segments (garbage collection).

Mailbox registrations: Mailbox registrations can optionally be used if mailbox owners want to

independently configure mailbox data for the list of static connections.

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

22 ELO XC



Language, Tree node height, Maximum idle time [s], Service notifications including

processing errors, HTML tooltips: These parameters affect various aspects of ELO XC

Manager.

License usage 

Licenses are used when messages from a mailbox/SMTP address are stored in the ELO repository.

The total number of all licenses used is known as license usage.

You can use filters to narrow down long lists. The filter is a regex search pattern.

The program records for each ID/mailbox address when the license was first used and when it was

used last. If no new messages are stored for a longer period, a date on which the license can be

freed up may be displayed.

Log analysis 

This tool allows you to summarize and subsequently evaluate ELO XC logs. The results are written

to the _Summaries child folder of the log directory.

Start date, End date: Start date and End date determine the time frame of the summary. It

only takes includes log outputs with timestamps in this interval. Since all log times are in

UTC, both search parameters must also be entered accordingly.

Threshold: The threshold can be used as an optional restriction for values greater than 0 to

only extract lines whose duration is higher than the entered number of milliseconds.

Instance: The Instance parameter can be used for values other than * to restrict the summary

to the logs of a specific instance.

Create: This function calls the separate ELOxcLS.exe program, which processes the currently

available logs based on the selected parameters. This process depends on the number of log

files and the specified time interval so it may take some time.

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

23 ELO XC



Reload: The Reload option reloads the available summaries in _Summaries and displays

them.

You can open this area to view the package contents.

Download viewer: To view the summary details, you need to use the log viewer and install it

locally. The Download viewer option downloads a package which can be extracted to any

directory and started with ELOxcLV.exe. You may be required to install NET6. This window

opens:

• 

24 ELO XC



In order to be able to view the summaries, the directory of the summaries must be entered

into the parameter directory. Afterwards, the available summaries appear under Summaries.

Service log type, Instance log type, Job log type: Service, Instance, and Job log type are

additional filters for specific log types.

Start at and End at: Start at and End at can be used to define the analysis period.

Log level: Log level is the type of log message.

Framework: The Framework option can be enabled to view Kestrel messages.

Scope: The log scope is an internal designation and helps to locate the log message. If you

do not want to filter by a specific scope, you can leave the field blank.

Log message: The log message contains information about the current execution position. If

you do not want to filter by a term in the log messages, you can leave the field blank.

Stop: Logs of bulk jobs can grow to several MB in size. In such cases, it can take a while for

the information to load. You can cancel these operations with Stop.

Filter: By clicking Filter, all log lines with the specified filter settings are displayed. Examples

with and without filters:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

25 ELO XC



Parameter help 

ELO XC Manager provides tooltips for most places in the interface.

26 ELO XC



For example, if you move the mouse pointer over the Catalog type parameter name in the instance

configuration, you will see the corresponding tooltip for this parameter. This view corresponds to

the default settings of the browser.

You can have the tooltips displayed as HTML instead. Open the Service settings dialog box in the

tools menu and check the HTML tooltips box.

This option improves the readability of tooltips.

However, the HTML view of tooltips requires additional internal JavaScript calls between the

browser and ELO XC, which may also prove to be a disadvantage depending on the browser.

27 ELO XC



You get all tooltips of the current parameters directly above the form view.

Clicking the button opens the parameter help in a new browser tab.

You get the full, structured description of the instance configuration fragment (technical name: 

InstanceDef). In addition, the associated XML schemas of the fragment are displayed after the

parameter descriptions. The technical names of parameters are marked blue.

28 ELO XC



Suppose that you don't remember where to find a parameter but only know that it had something

to do with the term mailbox. In this case, you can search the tooltips using the Parameter help

function in the tools menu.

Open the Parameter help dialog box, enter mailbox, and click search.

You get a list of all occurrences of the term mailbox.

You decide to use the fragment CommitDef and want to read the corresponding parameter help.

Click the question mark icon at the beginning of the line.

The parameter help page opens again in a new browser tab.

Each occurrence of the term mailbox is highlighted.

Connection test 

The connection test is the tool you should use to test the connection parameters of an instance if

creating an ldap or m365 catalog automatically.

29 ELO XC



1 Connection parameters: The top part of the dialog box contains the connection parameters that

are used for both the mailbox catalog and the EWS connection.

2 Catalog test options

3 EWS test options

Clicking on the Catalog test or EWS test button displays the respective results. A list of found

mailboxes is returned for the catalog tests and the connection log is displayed for the EWS tests.

If you open this tool while configuring the instance for ldap or m365, it is initialized with the current

parameters. You can apply changes to the configuration by clicking Save.

30 ELO XC



IMAP test 

Similar to the test for automatic catalogs, the IMAP test enables you to check whether ELO XC can

connect to an IMAP mailbox.

If you open this tool from a corresponding instance configuration, it is initialized with the available

parameters. After the test is completed, you can apply customized parameters to the instance

configuration with Save.

Please note

Only the first entry from the list of static connections is tested.

31 ELO XC



Properties 

The Properties tool helps you to find properties for processing messages. If you don't enter a name,

all properties are displayed. However, you will usually search for specific terms and ranges.

If you want to include senders in the metadata, you can search for sender.

The returned list of defined Exchange properties is too large and contains irrelevant properties (see 

Basics > Properties chapter).

32 ELO XC



The relevant properties are defined by ELO XC and are located at the end of the list of hits.

Restricting the property range would show the hits immediately.

When you are using property editors, it is possible that only MAPI names are available, which are

not automatically recognized by ELO XC.

33 ELO XC



Regex 

1 Matching pattern

2 Replacement

3 XML-compatible view of search and replace patterns

4 Options

5 Example with comment

6 Text entry

7 Result after replacement

8 Results of the search

34 ELO XC



Classes 

The Classes tool displays the set of supported message classes. The class filters enable you to

search for specific classes. If you leave this field empty, all available classes are displayed.

Mailbox usage 

The current mailbox usage is displayed in a dialog box. For this to work, the mailbox catalog must

have been loaded at least once in the active instance configuration. This is done with the Load

mailbox catalog function or automatically while validating the configuration.

35 ELO XC



You can also use wildcards as display filters. If you want to see all mailboxes used in an action tree

that has archive in the name, for example, you can use the Archive parameter.

36 ELO XC



Displayed mailboxes can also be added to a mailbox template.

Static mailbox registration 

Manually created mailbox catalogs are static since the associated connection data is not

automatically determined and is therefore unchangeable. This also means that access credentials

must be entered manually, which is acceptable for functional mailboxes such as a premium

journal. As soon as personal mailboxes have to be configured statically, security-relevant data can

be compromised, since mailbox owners are usually not the people who manage ELO XC.

In this section, we will show you how mailbox owners can enter the connection details for their own

mailboxes in ELO XC.

This function is optionally enabled with a service parameter. You can use the service settings in the

tools menu for this.

Alternatively, you can set the StaticBoxReg property to true in the ConfServiceDef part of the 

ELOxc.xml file. If this option is changed, you need to restart ELO XC for the changes to take effect.

Mailbox owners can use the function via the URL http://xc-host.domain:port/statreg.

SMTP address: The email address mailbox owners enter as the SMTP address.

Authentication: The authentication name is authentication.

Key: The password is key.

As soon as you click Register, ELO XC transfers the connection data to the ELOxcBoxReg.xml file in

the installation directory.

• 

• 

• 

37 ELO XC



In our example we use two instances, one for a local Exchange server, and one for an IMAP server.

Once we have registered both mailboxes, their entries can be found in ELOxcBoxReg.xml.

The ELO XC administrator can now transfer this connection data to an instance configuration.

We now transfer the local mailbox to the local Exchange server instance.

38 ELO XC



Click Apply to transfer the connection data to the list of static mailboxes.

Next, switch to the IMAP server instance and open the mailbox registrations window again.

Now you can select the IMAP mailbox and transfer it to the list of static connections.

The local mailbox is still listed in the mailbox registrations even though already transferred the

data. This is because you have the option to repeat the process for any number of instances. If you

are sure that you no longer need the data, you can delete the entry.

Information

The registration process can be repeated for an SMTP address at any time. ELO XC

recognizes the registered connections by address and updates authentication names or

passwords in both the ELOxcBoxReg.xml file and the instance configuration as required.

39 ELO XC


	Table of contents
	Operation
	ELO XC Manager
	Overview
	Authentication
	Menu
	Service notifications
	'User' drop-down menu
	'Tools' drop-down menu

	Instance overview
	Instance configuration
	Configuration functions
	Configuration structure
	Tree functions
	Form functions
	Display functions


	Instance overview
	Register instance
	Publish configuration
	Change registration
	Delete registration
	Start/stop instance
	Processing statistics

	Tools
	Service settings
	License usage
	Log analysis
	Parameter help
	Connection test
	IMAP test
	Properties
	Regex
	Classes
	Mailbox usage
	Static mailbox registration



