






























ELO Suite for SAP ArchiveLink® (SAP NetWeaver® & SAP S/4HANA®) | ELO Smart Link for SAP® ERP – Configuring an SSL connection


ELO Suite for SAP

ArchiveLink® (SAP

NetWeaver® & SAP S/

4HANA®)

ELO Smart Link for SAP® ERP –

Configuring an SSL connection



3

3

4

9

Table of contents

ELO Smart Link for SAP® ERP – Configuring an SSL connection

Introduction 

Configuration in the SAP system 

Troubleshooting 

2 ELO Suite for SAP ArchiveLink® (SAP NetWeaver® & SAP S/4HANA®)



ELO Smart Link for SAP® ERP – Configuring

an SSL connection

Introduction 

This documentation describes how to configure an SSL connection between an SAP system or the

associated content repository and the ELO Smart Link for SAP® ERP interface, called ELO Smart

Link in the following.

Basics 

Certain requirements have to be met to configure an SSL connection between these two systems.

For example, the SAP system kernel should be up-to-date and the SAP system should have the

current cryptography library (CommonCryptoLib). The profile parameters used should also be

configured so that the ELO Application Server cipher suites can be accepted.

You will find more information on SAP configuration and the required versions on the SAP support

site under the following notes:

510007 – Additional information about setting up SSL on the Application Server ABAP

2287896 – saphttp and SSL: client cipersuites configuration

Information

Accessing the SAP Support Launchpad requires an S-user on SAP sites.

The ELO server setup must have also been performed with the settings for configuring an SSL

connection with certificate chain.

Issues 

One common reason why the SAP system won't connect to ELO Smart Link for SAP® ERP via SSL

even though certificates have been imported is that no common cipher suite is found during

negotiation.

This is because many SAP systems are only configured for the old TLS protocol version 1.0 as

standard. By updating the kernel and the cryptography library, the SAP system also supports newer

protocols. However, these have to be activated in the configuration (see information in the chapter 

Basics).

To test this scenario, we recommend setting the cipher suite parameters to 967:PFS:HIGH:MEDIUM:

+e3DES::EC\_P256:EC\_HIGH.

As the SAP system has to be restarted every time changes are made to these profile parameters,

we recommend using a very high profile parameter value right from the start.

• 

• 

3 ELO Suite for SAP ArchiveLink® (SAP NetWeaver® & SAP S/4HANA®)

http://launchpad.support.sap.com/
http://launchpad.support.sap.com/
http://launchpad.support.sap.com/


Configuration in the SAP system 

First, export the certificate from ELO and import it to the corresponding SAP system. Use an up-to-

date browser. In this example, we used Firefox.

Certificate export 

The certificate can be exported right within the browser using the ELO Smart Link for SAP® ERP

configuration interface.

Fig.: Browser: Connection details

Navigate to the connection details in the browser address bar.

Fig.: Browser: More Information

In the connection details, now select More Information.

1. 

2. 

4 ELO Suite for SAP ArchiveLink® (SAP NetWeaver® & SAP S/4HANA®)



Fig.: Web Site Identity

In the following window, select Security in the ribbon. Under Web Site Identity, click View

Certificate.

Fig.: Certificate view

3. 

4. 

5 ELO Suite for SAP ArchiveLink® (SAP NetWeaver® & SAP S/4HANA®)



Export the entire certificate hierarchy. Select each of the certificates and export them

separately. As the certificates have to be imported to the SAP system in the correct order, we

recommend numbering the certificates when downloading them.

Certificate import 

To import the certificates, open the transaction STRUST in the SAP system.

In the certificate store, select the SSL Client (Standard) folder.

Fig.: Importing certificates

Fig.: Trust Manager in the SAP system

Click Import certificate, select the file path and exported certificates individually, then add

each of these certificates to the certificate list by clicking Add to Certificate List.

1. 

2. 

3. 

6 ELO Suite for SAP ArchiveLink® (SAP NetWeaver® & SAP S/4HANA®)



Configuring the content repository 

In the next step, the content repositories also have to be switched to HTTPS.

To do this, open transaction OAC0. This transaction contains another option for configuring an

HTTPS connection.

Fig.: Content repositories – HTTPS

In the command field/transaction field, enter %HTTPS and confirm with the ENTER key.

1. 

2. 

7 ELO Suite for SAP ArchiveLink® (SAP NetWeaver® & SAP S/4HANA®)



Fig.: Connection settings

If you only want to communicate via HTTPS, make the following settings.

Port number

SSL port number 9063

Frontend HTTPS HTTPS required

Backend HTTPS HTTPS required

The port entered here corresponds to the port selected in the ELO Smart Link for SAP® ERP

installation.

Please note

The value entered to the HTTP server field must match the name in the certificate. For

example, the IP address cannot be entered here if the certificate has been issued with a

name.

Once all settings have been applied, the SAP system and ELO now communicate exclusively via an

HTTPS connection.

3. 

8 ELO Suite for SAP ArchiveLink® (SAP NetWeaver® & SAP S/4HANA®)



Troubleshooting 

The HTTPS calls used by the SAP system are performed on the application server with a utility

library. For this reason, you won't find any detailed log files for troubleshooting purposes. We

therefore recommend configuring the following scenario to ensure logging and enable subsequent

troubleshooting.

Call the transaction SM59 and double-click the TCP/IP connection SAPHTTPA to select it.

The Show/Change button takes you to edit mode for the transaction.

Fig.: RFC Destination SAPHTTPA

Switch to the Special Options tab and check the box next to Set RFC Trace in the Trace area.

Now, save the settings.

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

9 ELO Suite for SAP ArchiveLink® (SAP NetWeaver® & SAP S/4HANA®)



Next, you want to perform a call (connection) between the SAP system and ELO. For

example, you can perform a connection test with a configured content repository in

transaction OAC0.

Call the transaction AL11.

Fig.: Work directory

Double-click the entry DIR_HOME in the list to select it (work directory). In this directory, you

should now find a file named dev_http.

You can analyze any possible errors within this file.

Fig.: Example error

6. 

7. 

8. 

10 ELO Suite for SAP ArchiveLink® (SAP NetWeaver® & SAP S/4HANA®)



As an example, we entered an incorrect configuration and performed a connection test. In this case,

the client cipher suite only accepts TLS version 1.0.

11 ELO Suite for SAP ArchiveLink® (SAP NetWeaver® & SAP S/4HANA®)


	Table of contents
	ELO Smart Link for SAP® ERP – Configuring an SSL connection
	Introduction
	Basics
	Issues

	Configuration in the SAP system
	Certificate export
	Certificate import
	Configuring the content repository

	Troubleshooting


